we begin in Gaza where Israel's
continuous bombing of the besieged strip
has killed nearly 400 Palestinians in 48
hours the Israeli Army is targeting
areas from the north to the south at
least six people have been killed in new
strikes in Rafa in southern Gaza they
include a 5-month-old baby the injured
are being treated in an overcrowded
Hospital the southern city of Han yunes
is also being targeted in aerial and
land attacks as the Israeli Army expands
operations in the city it says it's
conducting face to-face battles after
doubling troop numbers in the area the
Israeli offensive is also cutting off
access to food and water across the
strip the UN is warning of a devastating
famine if the war continues more than
half a million people in Gaza that's a
quarter of the population don't have
enough food hanim Mahmud is joining us
live now from Rafa in southern Gaza uh
hany more air strikes more deaths can
you bring us up to l Date with what the
latest is
there
yes har well within the past hour or so
more air strikes in the northern part
particularly on jabalia we're talking
about jabalia town and jabalia Refugee
count
simultaneously targeting more
residential blocks and more residential
homes that their initial reports are
from aljur area that's in jabalia town
where 10 people reported killed with
multiple other were critically injured
and the the other attack that took place
in jabali Refuge Camp again we're
talking about more residential homes
being destroyed and uh there are reports
about many people killed they still
waiting on the confirmed number of
people who have been killed and just due
to disabled communication we just find
it very difficult to uh uh to get uh uh
the the the up the the updates that we
we we need uh but this is part of of
ongoing systematic aial bombardment of
the area just overnight the same area
jabalia town was targeted a residential
home was completely destroyed uh and 16
people we just go a confirmed report of
alour family 16 people from alour family
were killed in that air strike there is
a fear of more people is still under the
rebels Monir alush the director of
hospitals at the Ministry of Health was
a critically injured his family member
his daughter was was killed and uh the
15 mother from his sister's side uh of
the family were also killed as people
were able to pull them from under the
rubbles within the past hour so so far
we're talking about more death more
destruction and more evacuation orders
in the central part of the Gaza trip Al
B refugee camp in the central part and
all the surrounding neighborhoods from
the anat refugee camp were ordered to
evacuate to the Eastern to uh the
southern part of Dar balah leaving the
Eastern side of Al magazi Al as well as
the Eastern side of der balah for what
it seems to be part of the already
declared Israeli plan of creating uh a
buffer zone by uh displacing more people
from those areas uh that are at the
Eastern side of Wadi Gaza along with
similar to what happened in in in
eastern Gaza City and the City of B
hanon more of this Destruction for the
purpose of creating a buffer zone at the
Eastern side uh of of the Gaza Strip and
honey throughout the war so far you've
been hearing from people about the the
very desperate conditions that the
displaced are living in uh and now the
world food programming is warning of a
devastating famine in the offing just
how worried are people as as winter
starts to take a grip on the situation
there
MH
yes very worried and and very also
concerned about the coming days if if if
we see more of these bombardment
continues uh to take place in the gos
there are a lot uh more people than we
ever seen in the past are becoming
hungry and they are on a verge of of
famine as a new uh reports by the world
food bank and save the children in fact
picked up that report and added to this
there are more children and families now
they are on a verge of famine as the
analysis of the data collected show that
there one in every four households are
only are are going hungry and and in
fact there is starvation signs started
to be visible across uh the Gaza Strip
as the Israeli uh government actions and
policies along with the constant
bombings of the Gaza Strip that has
effectively destroyed all means of of
life including sanitation and and
causing the hospitals across the GP to
be
overwhelmed on on top of that the the
the the crowded numbers of of people
inside evacuation centers in against the
the uh the little amount of humanitarian
Aid that been allowed into Gaza Strip
people are now not only displaced and
traumatized but also hungry and thirsty
giv the current uh
situations okay honey in Rafa thank you
very much for that Let's cross straight
now to Sarah hyat who's joining us live
from occupied East Jerusalem and Sarah
can you fill us in a bit more on what
the Israeli Army is saying about its
activities in hunus it's saying it's
intensified The Troop numbers there and
is engaged in in heavy fighting what
what more do we know about
that yeah and a statement was released
by the Israeli military detailing a bit
more not just in Khan yunes but also
other areas about how they've managed to
find more weapons they keep finding it
every few days they're saying and they
found this in Khan Unice they've talked
about destruction of tunnels they've
talked about uh specifically uh attacks
or attempted attacks by Hamas Fighters
and they said they've managed to quash
that before they were able to carry out
those attacks they mentioned an
engineering operative also launchers
that they said were used against their
forces about a week ago but newness as
we have seen is densely populated even
more so because all of those that were
in the north were told to head towards
the South they ended up mainly in Kanan
yunas that was thought to be the safest
place to go to well of course it no
longer is and also what makes this war
different to any of the other Wars is
that this involves a lot more urban
fighting Hamas Fighters know the terrain
very well they know the networks
underneath the tunnels and they know how
to operate there and that clearly there
is a lot of resistance because already
today the Israeli military has confirmed
that two of its soldiers have been
killed three yesterday and that death
toll keeps on Rising as well as the
death of a number of captives and sorry
you're there in occupied East Jerusalem
with the alaxa compound behind you uh
gearing up for Friday prayers presumably
in an hour or so's time what kind of
restrictions are being imposed at the
moment yeah what you uh may be able to
hear behind me is what's called theba
that's the speech or the sermon that's
held before the Friday prayer um Al aaos
compound is just behind me it's called a
compound cuz it has the mosque as well
as that area that empty area which would
normally be filled with worshippers on a
Friday 60,000 to be precise is the
average number every single Friday well
the last few weeks since the October 7
attack and since the war started uh that
number has dramatically decreased we're
talking about 4 4,000 worshippers and on
some weeks it was even less than that uh
one of the reasons is is that the
Israeli forces have been limiting who
can attend the prayers uh they're not
allowing people under a certain age uh
some of those from specific addresses uh
in occupied East Jerusalem are also
prevented from entering and often in
fact every Friday um not only have
Palestinians been targeted but media as
well including ourselves and uh other
cameraman a Palestinian cameraman last
Friday uh was uh hit and beaten by one
of the soldiers with a heavy boots on um
in the head and that gives you a sense
of the clamping down that is existing in
this occupied territory the Israeli
forces are carrying out uh heavy
surveillance heavy checks uh and
preventing not just people from entering
Al AOS compound but also from entering
the old city but just also to give you a
sense that akos compound isn't just
about Friday prayers for Palestinians
it's a hub it's where when you go you'll
see mothers they take their children
they meet they sit in that square that
you see behind me it's a community as
well and a lot of Palestinians in today
it seems are saying that some of the uh
mosques in the area and occupied East
Jerusalem are closing and they're
calling on people to head to al- aamos
because potentially this might be the
only way they can protest to the
restrictions because it's clearly a lot
more heavy-handed and really that's all
the Palestinians here are talking about
is the inability to be able to move
around with ease and certainly feeling
like they are under a watchful eye
constantly and every single day all
right Sarah har there in occupied
Jerusalem thank you very much